SW Engineering Summer 2023
[FAU: CEN 4010]


Project Proposal: 
NutriPlay


Group: 3


Scrum Master, Frontend Developer: Danny Ruiz
Frontend Developer: Yolanda Vega
Backend and Frontend (Hybrid) Developers: Matthew Cowell, William Gardner
Product Owner, Backend Developer: Josh Young


Milestone 1
Date: 20 June 2023

Revision History
-Revision 1: 20 June 2023




TABLE OF CONTENTS
	

	

	Executive Summary………………………..3
	Overview, Scenarios, and Use Cases …………………………………5
	Data Definitions …………………………………9
	Initial List of Functional Specifications …………………………………13
	List of Non-Functional Specifications …………………………………17
	Competitive Analysis…………………………………20
	High-Level System Architecture …………………………………27
	Task Checklist …………………………………28
	References …………………………………29
	Team Roles …………………………………30
	

1. Executive Summary
    In the United States, and throughout much of the modern, developed world, obesity rates and overall levels of inactivity are striking. The World Health Organization notes the following striking facts: (i) “Worldwide obesity has nearly tripled since 1975”; (ii) “in 2016, more than 1.9 billion adults, 18 years and older, were overweight” and “over 650 million were obese”; 
    (iii) “39% of adults aged 18 years and over were overweight in 2016, and 13% were obese”; and, (iv) strikingly and most disturbingly, “obesity is preventable.” [1] While this public health crisis certainly serves as a motivating tool for our development of NutriPlay, it is not our only endeavor. NutriPlay is envisioned as something of a game-like calorie counter; 
    it fits perfectly in the space of both those who are striving to lose weight and maintain a healthier lifestyle, as well as with those trying to keep their healthy eating habits. We strive to develop a tool that is, unlike its peers, fun and usable; we believe in elegant simplicity, and envision a product where users of any technical level can interact efficiently and effectively with our software.
    This is where our key aims come in: NutriPlay utilizes Natural Language Processing (hereinafter “NLP”) models and API based on said models to take simple sentences and convert them into trackable foods. Instead of being bombarded with a plethora of images, or inefficient search features, Nutriplay takes any sentence, as simple as “I had three eggs for breakfast” and converts them into “trackable” foods,
    denoting and logging their calorie count, nutrition information, and the like. In a world where ChatGPT is becoming predominant in studies, law, medicine, and even software development, we strive to make something of a “FoodGPT.” [2] NutriPlay provides users with login capabilities, allowing them to form an account and track their daily activities and food intake. It also takes into account exercise and 
    other caloric burning endeavors, allowing users to either search for-via a similar NLP-based API-or enter in raw data format from a FitBit or Apple Watch, or other such device, their calories burned, as a way to offset their overall caloric intake for the day. It also will provide friendly reminders, hopeful encouragement, and positive reinforcement upon login, and display simple rewards as part of the 
    experience-bar like aspect. However, we also want to add a fun and interesting take to our tool. Rather than simply count the user’s calories, our tool actively encourages the user through psychological means, converting their calories and tracking them as a “score” and adding a game-like “experience-bar” to their profile to keep them interested. Retained interest in any application is difficult to garner, 
    and since consistency is the key to weight loss, as referenced in a CNN study, it seems that our focus on consistency is the key to our end users’ successes. [3] NutriPlay’s goals are evident in its name: We seek to provide our end users with a tool that both helps them meet their nutritional needs and goals, while capturing and capitalizing upon game-like interactivity to retain their interest and bolster their success stories. 