SW Engineering Summer 2023
[FAU: CEN 4010]


Project Proposal: 
NutriPlay


Group: 3


Scrum Master, Frontend Developer: Danny Ruiz
Frontend Developer: Yolanda Vega
Backend and Frontend (Hybrid) Developers: Matthew Cowell, William Gardner
Product Owner, Backend Developer: Josh Young


Milestone 1
Date: 20 June 2023
Revision History




TABLE OF CONTENTS
	

	

	Executive Summary………………………..3
	Overview, Scenarios, and Use Cases …………………………………5
	Data Definitions …………………………………9
	Initial List of Functional Specifications …………………………………13
	List of Non-Functional Specifications …………………………………17
	Competitive Analysis…………………………………20
	High-Level System Architecture …………………………………27
	Task Checklist …………………………………28
	References …………………………………29
	Team Roles …………………………………30
	

1. Executive Summary
        In the United States, and throughout much of the modern, developed world, obesity rates and overall levels of inactivity are striking. The World Health Organization notes the following striking facts: (i) “Worldwide obesity has nearly tripled since 1975”; (ii) “in 2016, more than 1.9 billion adults, 18 years and older, were overweight” and “over 650 million were obese”; 
        (iii) “39% of adults aged 18 years and over were overweight in 2016, and 13% were obese”; and, (iv) strikingly and most disturbingly, “obesity is preventable.” [1] While this public health crisis certainly serves as a motivating tool for our development of NutriPlay, it is not our only endeavor. NutriPlay is envisioned as something of a game-like calorie counter; 
        it fits perfectly in the space of both those who are striving to lose weight and maintain a healthier lifestyle, as well as with those trying to keep their healthy eating habits. We strive to develop a tool that is, unlike its peers, fun and usable; we believe in elegant simplicity, and envision a product where users of any technical level can interact efficiently and effectively with our software.
        This is where our key aims come in: NutriPlay utilizes Natural Language Processing (hereinafter “NLP”) models and API based on said models to take simple sentences and convert them into trackable foods. Instead of being bombarded with a plethora of images, or inefficient search features, Nutriplay takes any sentence, as simple as “I had three eggs for breakfast” and converts them into “trackable” foods,
        denoting and logging their calorie count, nutrition information, and the like. In a world where ChatGPT is becoming predominant in studies, law, medicine, and even software development, we strive to make something of a “FoodGPT.” [2] NutriPlay provides users with login capabilities, allowing them to form an account and track their daily activities and food intake. It also takes into account exercise and 
        other caloric burning endeavors, allowing users to either search for-via a similar NLP-based API-or enter in raw data format from a FitBit or Apple Watch, or other such device, their calories burned, as a way to offset their overall caloric intake for the day. It also will provide friendly reminders, hopeful encouragement, and positive reinforcement upon login, and display simple rewards as part of the 
        experience-bar like aspect. However, we also want to add a fun and interesting take to our tool. Rather than simply count the user’s calories, our tool actively encourages the user through psychological means, converting their calories and tracking them as a “score” and adding a game-like “experience-bar” to their profile to keep them interested. Retained interest in any application is difficult to garner, 
        and since consistency is the key to weight loss, as referenced in a CNN study, it seems that our focus on consistency is the key to our end users’ successes. [3] NutriPlay’s goals are evident in its name: We seek to provide our end users with a tool that both helps them meet their nutritional needs and goals, while capturing and capitalizing upon game-like interactivity to retain their interest and bolster their success stories. 

2. Overviews, Scenarios, and Use Cases

Use Case - Search
Upon visiting the page, The User - regardless of whether they have an account or are instead a Visitor - seeks to search for caloric information regarding a certain food or a certain type of exercise. User or Visitor uses the search bar field to enter into the NLP model their food description or exercise description. The system references the API and returns nutrition facts, images, and general calorie information. 
1. Description: This use case describes the process of how User will utilize the search feature of the system.
2. Actors:
   1. User
   2. Visitor
   3. System
   4. Nutritionix API
3. Preconditions:
   1. User/Visitor has an active internet connection
   2. System is available
   3. User/Visitor has knowledge of their food consumption and recalls what they ate (quantity, type, etc.).
4. Primary Flow of Events:
   1. User/Visitor arrives at the webpage.
   2. Users may log in. Visitors can remain logged out, as they do not have an account. Should User log in, they are presented with their profile page.
   3. User/Visitor enters search criteria of food or calorie burning exercise/activity into the search bar.
   4. Web page displays relevant search results with images, nutrition information, and caloric amounts.
   5. Users, if logged in, may store this information in their log. Visitors may view information but cannot log either or.
   6. Terminate Use Case: Search
5. Alternate Flows
   1. User Enters Prohibited Characters/Format into Search Bar.
      1. If, in step 4(c), User enters prohibited characters or a prohibited format in the search bar:
         1. Website notifies user that the characters they used are prohibited, and
         2. Return to step 4(a).
   2. User/Visitor Enters Unknown Food/Activity Not in API Database
      1. User/Visitor enters a location/activity that doesn’t exist in the API database.
      2. If, in step 4(c), User enters an unknown food or caloric-burning activity into the database and nothing is returned, the website shall:
         1. Provide alternative suggestions, and
         2. Terminate Use Case: Search
________________

Use Case - Add a Food/Calorie-Burning Activity to Log
Users want to add food or calorie-burning activity to their log in order to determine their current status. User logs in, conducts a search (See: Use Case - Search, above), and selects their consumed food or performed activity. 
User will press the “Add Food /Activity to Log button, and System will check to ensure User is logged in. If not, User is asked to log in, or create an account if one does not exist. 
Once System confirms a successful login, User re-attempts to add the food or activity to their log. User will press Confirm, and the new Food/Activity is added to their calorie log and their experience bar progresses/moves.

1. Description: This use case describes the process of how User will add a Food/Activity to their calorie log and move their experience bar.
2. Actors:
   1. User
   2. System
   3. Nutritionix API
3. Preconditions:
   1. User/Visitor has an active Internet Connection
   2. System is available
   3. User has an active account
   4. User is logged into system
   5. User has conducted a search and selected the relevant food/activity
4. Primary Flow of Events:
   1. User has conducted a Search (See: Use Case - Search) for food/activity not yet logged.
   2. System checks if User is logged in.
   3. If User is not logged in, go to Alternative Flow 5(a).
   4. User fills out the search bar (or form, if logging activity) provided by the system.
   5. User press the Confirm button to save added food/activity to their calorie log and move their experience bar.
   6. The system saves the selected food/activity to the User's calorie log and recalculates totals.
   7. Terminate Use Case - Add a Food/Calorie-Burning Activity to Log.
5. Alternative Flows:
   1. User is not logged in (from Primary Flow 4(c)).
      1. The system requests User enters their extant or new credentials.
         1. If User does not have an account, go to Alternative Flow 5(b)
      2. User enters credentials.
      3. System validates credentials
         1. if credentials are improperly entered, return to step 5(b) and re-confirm entry.
      4. End Alternative Flow 5(a) - Return to Primary Flow, step 5(d).
   2. User does not have an account (from Alternative Flow 5(a)(i)(1))
      1. The system requests User create an account
      2. If User does not want to create an account, End Alternate Flow 5(b). Terminate Use Case - Add a Food/Caloric-Burning Activity to Log.
      3. User clicks “Create a New Account” button.
      4. System displays Account Creation Form.
      5. User completes form, and presses Submit.
      6. The system creates new member account in the member database.
      7. End Alternative Flow - return to Primary Flow, step 4(d).User logs into their account.
________________

Use Case - Search for Additional Resources
User seeks additional resources, e.g., recipes, blogs, dieticians nearby, or how to start a weight loss journey, as well as ways on how to meet or exceed their fitness goals. User navigate to a new section of the website, entitled “Additional Resources.” Once the system redirects User to the new webpage, User is provided with Additional Resources and advice relevant to their interests.
1. Description: This use case describes the process of how User will find additional information relevant to their weight loss goals-or fitness goals-on the website.
2. Actors:
   1. User
   2. Visitor
   3. System
3. Preconditions:
   1. User has an active Internet Connection
   2. System is available
4. Primary Flow of Events:
   1. User arrives at the webpage.
   2. User may log in. Should they log in, they are presented with their profile page.
   3. User selects the “Additional Resources” tab and navigates to that portion of the webpage.
   4. Additional resources are provided to User.
   5. Terminate Use Case - Search for Additional Resources.
5. Alternative Flows:
   1. User/Visitor does not find a resource as anticipated, but wants to suggest such a resource or idea be added.
      1. User/Visitor navigates to “Contact Us” section of the website and fills out provided form, providing recommendations.
      2. Terminate Use Case - Search for Additional Resources.
