2. Overviews, Scenarios, and Use Cases

Use Case - Search
Upon visiting the page, The User - regardless of whether they have an account or are instead a Visitor - seeks to search for caloric information regarding a certain food or a certain type of exercise. User or Visitor uses the search bar field to enter into the NLP model their food description or exercise description. The system references the API and returns nutrition facts, images, and general calorie information. 
1. Description: This use case describes the process of how User will utilize the search feature of the system.
2. Actors:
   1. User
   2. Visitor
   3. System
   4. Nutritionix API
3. Preconditions:
   1. User/Visitor has an active internet connection
   2. System is available
   3. User/Visitor has knowledge of their food consumption and recalls what they ate (quantity, type, etc.).
4. Primary Flow of Events:
   1. User/Visitor arrives at the webpage.
   2. Users may log in. Visitors can remain logged out, as they do not have an account. Should User log in, they are presented with their profile page.
   3. User/Visitor enters search criteria of food or calorie burning exercise/activity into the search bar.
   4. Web page displays relevant search results with images, nutrition information, and caloric amounts.
   5. Users, if logged in, may store this information in their log. Visitors may view information but cannot log either or.
   6. Terminate Use Case: Search
5. Alternate Flows
   1. User Enters Prohibited Characters/Format into Search Bar.
      1. If, in step 4(c), User enters prohibited characters or a prohibited format in the search bar:
         1. Website notifies user that the characters they used are prohibited, and
         2. Return to step 4(a).
   2. User/Visitor Enters Unknown Food/Activity Not in API Database
      1. User/Visitor enters a location/activity that doesn’t exist in the API database.
      2. If, in step 4(c), User enters an unknown food or caloric-burning activity into the database and nothing is returned, the website shall:
         1. Provide alternative suggestions, and
         2. Terminate Use Case: Search
________________

Use Case - Add a Food/Calorie-Burning Activity to Log
Users want to add food or calorie-burning activity to their log in order to determine their current status. User logs in, conducts a search (See: Use Case - Search, above), and selects their consumed food or performed activity. 
User will press the “Add Food /Activity to Log button, and System will check to ensure User is logged in. If not, User is asked to log in, or create an account if one does not exist. 
Once System confirms a successful login, User re-attempts to add the food or activity to their log. User will press Confirm, and the new Food/Activity is added to their calorie log and their experience bar progresses/moves.

1. Description: This use case describes the process of how User will add a Food/Activity to their calorie log and move their experience bar.
2. Actors:
   1. User
   2. System
   3. Nutritionix API
3. Preconditions:
   1. User/Visitor has an active Internet Connection
   2. System is available
   3. User has an active account
   4. User is logged into system
   5. User has conducted a search and selected the relevant food/activity
4. Primary Flow of Events:
   1. User has conducted a Search (See: Use Case - Search) for food/activity not yet logged.
   2. System checks if User is logged in.
   3. If User is not logged in, go to Alternative Flow 5(a).
   4. User fills out the search bar (or form, if logging activity) provided by the system.
   5. User press the Confirm button to save added food/activity to their calorie log and move their experience bar.
   6. The system saves the selected food/activity to the User's calorie log and recalculates totals.
   7. Terminate Use Case - Add a Food/Calorie-Burning Activity to Log.
5. Alternative Flows:
   1. User is not logged in (from Primary Flow 4(c)).
      1. The system requests User enters their extant or new credentials.
         1. If User does not have an account, go to Alternative Flow 5(b)
      2. User enters credentials.
      3. System validates credentials
         1. if credentials are improperly entered, return to step 5(b) and re-confirm entry.
      4. End Alternative Flow 5(a) - Return to Primary Flow, step 5(d).
   2. User does not have an account (from Alternative Flow 5(a)(i)(1))
      1. The system requests User create an account
      2. If User does not want to create an account, End Alternate Flow 5(b). Terminate Use Case - Add a Food/Caloric-Burning Activity to Log.
      3. User clicks “Create a New Account” button.
      4. System displays Account Creation Form.
      5. User completes form, and presses Submit.
      6. The system creates new member account in the member database.
      7. End Alternative Flow - return to Primary Flow, step 4(d).User logs into their account.
________________

Use Case - Search for Additional Resources
User seeks additional resources, e.g., recipes, blogs, dieticians nearby, or how to start a weight loss journey, as well as ways on how to meet or exceed their fitness goals. User navigate to a new section of the website, entitled “Additional Resources.” Once the system redirects User to the new webpage, User is provided with Additional Resources and advice relevant to their interests.
1. Description: This use case describes the process of how User will find additional information relevant to their weight loss goals-or fitness goals-on the website.
2. Actors:
   1. User
   2. Visitor
   3. System
3. Preconditions:
   1. User has an active Internet Connection
   2. System is available
4. Primary Flow of Events:
   1. User arrives at the webpage.
   2. User may log in. Should they log in, they are presented with their profile page.
   3. User selects the “Additional Resources” tab and navigates to that portion of the webpage.
   4. Additional resources are provided to User.
   5. Terminate Use Case - Search for Additional Resources.
5. Alternative Flows:
   1. User/Visitor does not find a resource as anticipated, but wants to suggest such a resource or idea be added.
      1. User/Visitor navigates to “Contact Us” section of the website and fills out provided form, providing recommendations.
      2. Terminate Use Case - Search for Additional Resources.
